>> Richard Feldman: Now let's look
at this TagFeed, and think about,
how are we gonna actually represent
the particular tag that you have selected?
Well, right now the way that we're doing
that is we have a tab which is going to
now be of type Tab.
And then we have, you may recall
from our previous exercises,
this string called selectedTag.
And when you click on one of the tags, we
made it so that selectedTag gets updated
to be whatever that particular string
is of the tag that you clicked on.
But if you think about it,
selectedTag only makes sense if
you've actually selected a tag.
If I click on one of these,
the new behavior's going to be,
we want to switch to a tag feed and
set selected tag.
But if I switch to global feed or
your feed, we wanna deselect the tag.
We no longer want to
have any selected tag.
So what are we gonna do with this value?
Well it's still there on the model,
so we could clear it out,
we could make it be empty string if you
don't have a particular tag selected.
Or we could just have it be there and
just stale and just try to ignore it.
But it'd be nice if it were
sort of only there in context.
In other words, it were only possible to
have a selected tag when we're actually
showing the tag feed.
Because those two are linked, it would
be nice to link them in our data model.
>> Richard Feldman: So
how can we link them?
Well, like this.
We can actually add a parameter
to TagFeed that says TagFeed not
only specifies that we're on
that particular type of feed.
But also, there's some
additional information in there.
There's a string that
goes along with that.
So if we do it this way,
then TagFeed goes from being a value of
type tab to a function that returns a tag.
So if we were in Elm REPL,
we would call that function like this.
We would call TagFeed, this is now
a function with a capital letter at
the beginning, first time we've seen that.
Call TagFeed,
passing the string "happiness", and
now it will give us back one of these
TagFeeds that's got that string
of "happiness" inside of it,
and that is of type Tab.
If we were to just pass TagFeed
directly into Elm REPL, it would say,
what you've got there is a function
which takes a String and returns a Tab.
In contrast, if we put your feed in there,
it's gonna say that's a Tab global feed,
that's a tTab, TagFeed that's a function.
>> Richard Feldman: Okay, so
here's how those sort of relate.
If I say yours, that is of type Tab,
that's YourFeed.
Happiness is a Tab, to get one of those,
if I want to get a Tab value I have to
get call TagFeed passing happiness.
Okay, so once I've done that I've obtained
this TagFeed that has this string
stored inside of it,
here's how we get it back out.
Same case expression as before, but now
we've added something to the TagFeed case.
We're saying TagFeed space and
then a lower case letter
variable name selectedTag.
I happened to decide to name
it selectedTag right now.
This works a lot like function arguments.
Except sort of in reverse, where we're
saying, I have a value that holds onto
this thing, I wanna extract that value and
give it a name.
Pull out that string and say, from now on,
inside the scope of this branch of
the case expression, we now have a thing
called selectedTag and it is that string,
we can now work with that.
So based on this,
we can say in the case of YourFeed,
we don't have that selectedTag string,
it doesn't exist.
GlobalFeed, same thing, does not exist,
can't possibly access it.
We only have that selectedTag
accessible if we're on the TagFeed.
In which case, we have it and we name it.
This is why there's a distinction
between capitalized and
uncapitalized things in Elm.
IF we had TagTeed and then a capital
S SelectedTag, what we'd be saying
is I have a tag feed which contains some
custom type variant called SelectedTag.
Lower case means it's a variable.
I am giving this a new name, and
just like all other variables, function,
arguments, etc,
that all have lowercase names.
I am saying, yeah, I am not saying
that this is a particular value,
I am saying I do not know what that
value is but give it this name and
I am gonna do something with it.
So we have essentially gone from
having Tab be an enumeration,
which is what it was before,
now it's a container.
It's a container that situationally
holds additional information,
only in the case that we're on a TagFeed.
But as you can imagine, we can do a lot
more custom stuff than even this.
We could give TagFeed multiple
values that it's storing.
We could have TagFeed store a record.
We could have GlobalFeed store a record or
a list of records.
Any combination of things that we want,
any of these can specify as much or
as a little data as they
want to hold on to.
We can sort of make custom shapes for
our data to fit our use case perfectly,
and to do things like linking up this
relationship between the selectedTag,
and which tab we're on
at the data model level.
Cool, so Evan the creator of Elm wrote
that he considers custom types to
be the most important feature in Elm.
And as we'll see in the advanced workshop,
there's a pretty deep rabbit
hole of like implications and
really cool stuff you can do with
just the stuff that we just learned.
We're not gonna dive into that rabbit hole
today, because this is the intro course.
But it's worth knowing I think,
that there's quite a lot of cool stuff
that you can do with this that's
not necessarily obvious given
how simply we're using it here.